Skip to Main Content
Accessibility Overview
Logo
PMP® Certification Training SEP 2025 batch 7- Shared screen with speaker view
Sep 17, 2025 08:33 PM

00:00:00/02:37:43

Speed


Audio Transcript
Chat Messages
Search transcript
Learner Success Manager
Learner Success Manager
00:27:19
Hello, everyone, and welcome to Simply Learn. I'm Shatwik, and I'll be your Learner Success Manager for today's session. It's great to have you all here, and I'm having a wonderful day so far. Before we jump into the exciting content, can you please confirm in the chat if you can hear my voice loud and clear? You can type yes in the chat box.
Awesome. Thanks for the confirmation. After this session, I'll send out a short survey. Your feedback is precious to us, so please take a moment to rate the session and tell us how we did. Please add comments to the survey, which will encourage us to keep doing good work, or improving.
And, closed captions are available for the session. You will have to enable it to follow the conversation closely. And the same will be made available in session recordings also. Before we dive in, let's just record a check with our trainer. Hello, Ranjit Tamam. Is my voice loud and clear to you? Can you please confirm?
Faculty Ranjeeta Jain
Faculty Ranjeeta Jain
00:28:30
Yes, Shatvik, you are loud and clear. Just confirm if I am loud and clear enough.
Learner Success Manager
Learner Success Manager
00:28:36
Yes, ma'am, you're loud and clear. I've given you the co-host access, you can take over the session, and happy learning, everyone. Thank you so much.
Faculty Ranjeeta Jain
Faculty Ranjeeta Jain
00:28:43
Okay, thank you.
Hi, team, very warm welcome. Now, just confirm, as I could note from some of you, that you're facing some trouble in the audio issues. Is it same with my voice also? Or am I loud and clear?
So, no issues as such, all okay? Fine. Thank you so much.
So today, we have to kickstart
our PMP journey. As yesterday, we just… have covered the…
course pattern, exam pattern, that is what we had spent the entire session yesterday on that. As already, I had made it very clear to all of you that regarding the
PMI kit, you will always get the support from our
support team. You can always raise a support ticket for all your operational issues, all your other queries, support-related queries, they will be always assisting you. Because one feedback was there, that it was just rushed through, in a very, faster way, that we couldn't get to know how to access the study material.
And how about those things?
So, yes, Nidhi, the slides that I am using, as I just mentioned, all these slides, 520 slides we have for our 6 chapters, and all these 520 slides that I'm going to use
you would be getting the complete slides in the form of PDF by the PMI.
And for that, you have to claim your digital key, from the LMS portal, After claiming that digital key.
You would be receiving one email within the 48 hours.
So, the people who have claimed their digital key, now wait for 48 hours, might be within the 24 hours, or within the 48 hours, you are going to receive an email
In that email, this would be the invite. So you have to, like, accept that invite, and it is going to direct you towards the PMI website. So, Shivani, as I just mentioned, please wait for 48 hours.
You have to wait, no. If you have claimed your digital key today, or might be yesterday, just wait for some time.
So, you will be receiving the email, and if you're not going to receive that email, you can raise a support ticket. Our team is going to assist you on that.
Until and unless you receive that email, you will not be able to access the kit.
You have received… Mukesh has received, and he has also got the login, right? So now log in on the PMI site, and I have guided you that you have to just click on your profile, and you will find the Simply Learn
Solutions Partner Platform.
Click on that.
It would be asking you to start your course or get your course.
So, Pooja, if you're not able to raise a support ticket, you can just ping our Learner Success Manager. At the end of the session, we would be sparing few minutes to handle all your operational-related queries. So, as we just set our agenda.
That we have to focus on the content-related queries with the trainer.
And any operational logistic queries, we will be handling through our support team.
Alright, so the session material.
that you are not going to get maybe within 2-3 days, so I'm going to share you all the slides that we are discussing with the complete explanation. Slide-wise explanation notes I would be sharing you today at the end of the session, so no worries, at least for a week's
you will have the content with you. So, you may be able to download your own PMI kit within the week itself.
So, Abdulwahid has also got the access. Some of the learners have already got the access to the PMI kit. Others, don't worry, you will be getting it. Now, classes recording usually gets uploaded within the 48 hours.
So, recorded sessions would be available, as I've shown you, on the LMS portal. So, you have to log in to the LMS portal, and you will find the sessions recording under your live class
Tap.
Simply Learn LMS, you have to go for the session recordings.
And there are 3 tabs. First is your self-paced videos. Another one is your
assessment live classes. So, self-learning, live classes, you will be finding all your classes here.
So, there would be a play button that you have to click on. Under the My Class, you will find these
icons.
So, all the classes recording is usually updated within the 48 hours, though sometimes it gets uploaded within the 10-12 hours also. You have to click on this play button.
And you have to watch recording, and you have to do some fast forwarding, because usually our Learner Success Manager starts the session a bit earlier.
No, you need not have to use this LMS during the session.
Because you are only going to focus on what I'm teaching you right now. So what the trainer is covering, just focus on that, make a note, don't watch your LMS right now. LMS, you have to just refer
for your recordings, for your session material. And even if you have downloaded those session materials, you need not have to refer to. You are going to refer to the LMS for what? For your self-paced videos.
For your class recordings, For your assessment test, this is what is available under the SimplyLearn LMS.
Right now, please focus on what we are going to cover as per our PMP exam.
The last 10 minutes, we are going to keep forward doubt questions for the query related to your operations, logistics, all that we would be answering at the end.
So, please park your questions for all these operations and logistics credits till the end of the session. We have our support team, exam team, to assist you on that. Any questions related to the content, we would be covering, but not, just
Maybe, you know, you just keep on asking the questions on the chat window. It sometimes distracts the people. So, first, follow. Just follow the flow. Don't break the flow, actually, in between. Let me cover at least 4 or 5 slides.
Then I'll pause.
And we will be… Discussing the questions, whatever you have related to the content. And whatever questions you have.
Maybe, you know, this is what, like, as I just mentioned to you, we are in the forming stage, then storming, so it takes some 3-4 days to get gel with each other. You'll also understand the flow, you'll also understand the course content, no? So, we have a complete agenda. We are going to talk those topics
Session-wise. So might be, you know, people do have a lot of questions in the beginning that we would be covering in our, upcoming topics, so I will be always focusing to cover that topic during the, that…
So, we have to park certain questions till the time we are going to cover those topics.
So yesterday was our first class itself, and we haven't touched any
exam content outline. We had only discussed about our exam pattern, about our preparation, about our websites, that is the PMI website and the Simply Learn website.
Now, today, Mark Server kickoff of this particular project, that is the PMP. So, first chapter is focusing on the business environment. It is just a warm-up
topics we are going to have, because this is where we are going to focus on the foundation. We are going to focus on our strategic alignment, about the project benefits and values. We'll discuss about the organization culture change management.
governance, and compliances. So, we are going to spend at least 4 to 5 days on these topics.
So, right from the scratch.
As I mentioned to you yesterday, there are certain things that we all have to unlearn, and we have to relearn new things as per the PMI mindset.
So, foundation is all, you know, all the fundamentals about what project is, what programs are, what operations are, what is the portfolio, what are the project management principles, what are the different type of organization structures, how they influence the success of the project.
all that topics, PMO types, that is what we are going to cover in this topic. Foundation.
So, as we all know, we all are doing projects from so many years, no? Some of you are having the experience of 20 years, 22 years, 25 years, and at least 3 or 4 years of project experience. Now, project, as per the PMI, is a temporary endeavor
Undertaken to create a unique product, service, or the result.
So, the outcome of your project will be always unique. There cannot be the outcome of two projects similar. Maybe, you know, either the risk would be different, resources would be different, some uniqueness would be there.
So the outcome of a project could be in the form of a product, no? You're developing your mobile handsets, you're constructing buildings.
bridges, all that is a kind of a product that we are delivering as an outcome of our project. Sometimes we are focusing on the project that is going to deliver some services or the result.
Can you think of some example where you are working on a project and outcome is in the form of services?
Just think of some examples, all of you.
Where the outcome of a project would be in the form of some services.
Some service-oriented project?
no training program, we are doing it. Some customer onboarding processes, we are doing it. So we are working on several projects, you know, building a service desk, support desk. Yeah, so this is what we are getting the outcome as a…
service. Now, think of the outcome where you are going to get as a result, the outcome of a project in the form of result.
So, okay, product and services you all have done. Now, where we are going to get the results?
healthcare rollout. Maybe, you know, you are doing some compliance implementation project, elections.
Customer satisfaction improvement, job board, yeah, so that is what we do have the outcome of the project as in the form of a work.
Services, result, or the product?
Now, the project success depends on several factors.
What are they? It depends on the organizational maturity.
What does we mean by this? Because you know that how much experience our organization has.
No, how good you are in managing your project, so that depends on the organization maturity, how much capability we have to handle those projects, how much supportive structures we have related to our projects.
No, this is always going to increase the project
Success likelihood. How effective is the project manager as you?
What is the maturity, you know, what is the experience you have? This is what, you know, your competencies.
How you are able to manage those project risks.
scope, schedule, teams, that is what is all depends on you. How much funds and resources availability that we have. So, etiquette
resources has to be there for the smoother executions. Your team members also should be of, desired skills, no? You should have a capable, high-performing team to deliver the project results.
There has to be a stakeholders collaboration, because this is how we always have to maintain the open communication, the
complete collaboration, which is going to resolve, which is going to reduce those conflicts, and it is going to align everybody with the project success, project objective. And always, we need to understand our core problem.
what is the need? What is the requirement we are fulfilling by this project? So, you need to have a good understanding about your problem, about your needs, so that you can address all of them, you can manage all the project constraints also. Now, what are the project constraints?
That you have to.
Manage.
No, we have to manage the time constraint, scope, resources, Cost… Risk.
Quality. All of them are the…
Constraints that we have to balance.
Yeah, quality will include those standards, compliances, everything. So this is how, as a project manager, we have to… so for that, you need to have a clarity about your problem understanding.
Now, what does project management mean?
Project management is all about using the specific
knowledge, skills, tools, and technique to meet your project requirement. Simply, it is managing your project effectively to achieve your objective of the project.
So, we are…
doing the project since ancient history. You know, we have seen this human history. Project management was not practiced so formally
in those times. But this is how, in the 1969, PMI was founded, because they recognized, no, the different people from the different industries, they now recognize that we need some standardized tools, we need some standardized way to manage these
project, the way, the way market is evolving, the way technology is evolving. So, this is how the PMI was founded in 1969, and this is how they developed their standards, their best practices, and the first
Project Management Body of Knowledge was introduced in 1996.
And even PMI is also evolving, because that is what they are coming up with the updated standards, updated practices every four years.
As we all know, in 2021, we have got our 7th edition. Now, we are already getting our 8th edition by this 2026.
So we are also… PMI is also evolving.
Because we know that something which we know today may not be effective enough to borrow. So that is how they update. So who is… who is the author of this PIMBOK?
Who is the author?
It is you and me, us, yeah? Because that is what, no, PMI is going to take the inputs from the best practitioners. They are going to ask.
So this is how they develop those updated methodologies.
And now the 2020-2022 view is having a totally updated, because this is how they say that we are now focusing not only the output of our project, but we are specifically focusing on the outcome. Project should drive the outcome, the benefits, the value that should be aligned with the
organizational strategic goal. It should align with the organizational goal. That is what we are now going to focus on.
Not only achieving the output, but it should drive the outcome to get aligned with the strategic goal.
what is the difference between the output and the outcome? So, just think of when we say output, output is what, once you have achieved your desired
result. No, you have got something to do. So, we know that you're doing some kind of a processes. So, output is some kind of a tangible or the intangible product, services, or the
Maybe deliverable that your project has produced. What has to be delivered, what has to be created, that is an output. Now, outcome is basically the impact, the change this particular result is going to, bring.
What are those benefits? What are those changes that we are going to achieve because of it?
Now, just we consider, no, we are doing this PMP project. So, once we complete our… all this exam content outline, we have understood all those things, that is what is the output.
What would be the outcome once you are able to successfully
Clear your exam, that is the outcome.
Yep.
So, always just, just a simple analogy I'm taking you. Maybe, you know, you have developed a software.
Just, you have completed that software, or you have constructed a building, you have done a kind of a training program, but how you are going to get the outcome, that is what it has to be, always increasing the efficiency. It should always improve your customer satisfaction. That always happens over the time.
This is what we are focusing on, in our project.
Nope.
The most important slide for all of us.
how the work gets developed in the project. We call that as a development approaches.
So now, as we know that we have got Different development approaches.
Predictive, This is the icon for predictive.
This is the icon for adaptive. This is the icon for hybrid.
So, ideally, we classify our development approach under two categories, plan-driven and change-driven.
Now, the development approach clearly depends on what is the kind of complexities you have in your project, what is the clarity in the requirements you have, what does customer want, how quickly he wants. So, there are several parameters that you have to think. Based on that, you decide what should be your development approach.
How much risk is there, how much stability we have in our requirements, how much scope stability we do have. So there are several factors. Now, based on that, we know that what should be our approach, what should be our development approach, how we are going to develop it.
So now we have first as the plan-based approach, which is the traditional way of managing your project.
A typical waterfall cycle.
So what happens in this?
You can define your project scope.
Schedule, budget, resources, risk, everything up front.
Because we have our known requirements. We know our stable scope. Just think of, no, you have to construct your home.
So, you have to construct your office, you have to construct a bridge. So, that is where, you know, the sequence doesn't change. You know that first we have to collect our requirements.
After collecting our requirements, we have to design, we have to get the permits, we have to do the foundation, structural work, finishing work, then we are going to hand over the project. So there is the sequence.
Of activities, sequence of phases that we do follow In a linear fashion.
So, once we complete our first phase, that requirement elicitation is done.
Then you start Maybe getting those designs.
permits.
After that, we start working on our construction. So, the sequence will not change. This is how we are following, and we get the approval after every phase to move on to the next. So usually, when we say predictive, it is a plan-based approach. The plan drives the project.
So, right from your requirement collection, design, permits, procurement, building, and delivering, testing and delivering. That is what is the… this plan-based
Traditional way of working, predictive way of working, where you can have a well-defined scope, we have a low changes in our sequences or the requirements, we have a clear-cut requirement, our main focus is on the cost.
we are working that we are not going to have changes in our project, in our requirements. Some kind of a modification, some kind of a changes are there that we're going to discuss, but mostly the work is planned up front, and we execute it, and we deliver
our outcome at the end of the project. That is a single delivery at the end.
This is how we are working on this traditional waterfall plan-based approach.
Some of the software, some of the websites also, once you have got a complete clarity in your requirements, so how do we do that?
We first collect our requirements, no, we get the approval, we plan for it, we execute it. This is how we are doing it, when you have a clarity in your scope. But you cannot have the same type of approach in the other environments also.
What if, suppose, Let's take an example.
You have to develop a new vaccine.
Maybe for a cancer, or maybe, let's say, you are working on a new COVID vaccine.
Soap!
Can you just follow a… Plan?
And you can drive the result at the end by following it in a single way. Is it possible?
No.
So, sometimes we know that we have working, we are working with a changing requirement, dynamic environment.
So, we cannot predict everything beforehand.
So, we need to go for adaptive way of working.
Now, what does this adaptive way of working? Adaptive means…
Once we know our requirements are dynamic.
We have an uncertainty, volatility, and our scope, our requirements can change in our project. So, we know that we have a clear vision, but to achieve that vision, we are going to work with some feedback. So, in our adaptive
We have agile, incremental, or iterative development. That is a change-based approach. So, change-based approach is all iterative way of working, incremental way of working, or agile lifecycle. We'll discuss, one by one, what is the difference.
Now, iterative life cycle is simple.
That is going to work once you have got a rough idea about your outcome, but you want to
Refine it over a time.
So, here you are allowing the feedback So you just… Work…
For a face, we call this as an iteration.
So you have work, and you have developed a prototype, now you are reviewing. You are taking the feedback.
Now, based on the feedback, we have to improve.
Again, we take the feedback.
Again, we improve further. Again, feedback. So, until and unless we get our desired solution, we are keeping on modifying. So, we have to repeat our activities multiple times.
So that is what is the iterative way of working. So you are repeating your work.
Until you get your final solution.
This is what is the iterative way of working, pure iterative. Iterative is all about where project is developed in the repeated cycles. We call these cycles as iterations. Each iteration produces some version of your product.
And then we take the feedback, we improve on it. Again, we take that feedback, again, we improve on it.
So this is how, with the continuous feedback, we are refining, and each iteration is built upon the previous one. Just think of when you are doing your vaccine development, or I have a very good example.
To make you understand Iterative way of working.
Just imagine, you are… Sculpting one's statue.
So what you do, you just have some rough idea, you design some rough shape.
And then you keep on refining it.
then you had done some painting, then further you added some embellishment, some jewelries and all, then you got satisfied. So we are repeating our iterations until we get our desired solution.
And again, we have a single delivery in the iterative life cycle.
That is what is the iterative way of working.
this one. We started with some rough idea, and we are modifying based on the feedback, until we get… yeah, build until perfection. Build until we get our desired solution. We get our
Correct result.
That is what is the iterative way of working.
So, building, repeating this cycle.
So that we are refining with every cycle until we get our desired solution. That is the iterative way of working. Just you know that when you are doing your vaccine, no, you started with one iteration.
you check the result, took the feedback, again you repeat, no, you change some combinations of those, components, then again, you take the result, those testing. Again, so until we get our final things.
we launch our product. That is the typical iterative way of working.
Where we are focusing on the Feedback, Review, and we are improving.
Incremental is nothing but you are focusing on
creating small, small components, and you are delivering. After every iteration, After every iteration, We are getting some usable
Result. Functional component.
We did some work, we have some functional component. Then again, we focus on doing next portion, we get our functional component.
Right? This is what… just think of if you are building a… four-story, office building.
So, what you did, you first completed your first floor, and you asked, okay, you can start using this first floor, no? In the meantime, we can construct our, other floor. So, this is how we are delivering
In small, small portion.
So, we have our clarity in the requirement.
But we decompose our project because customer wants to see the result sooner. Speed is our top priority.
After every iteration.
we are getting some functional component. Just think of, you are working on a kind of a project where, instead of delivering in a single way, customer wants to see the results sooner, so you decompose your entire project
Maybe, you know, you are developing a…
Mobile app, or maybe a banking application.
So you know that you have to work on several features.
So, what we did…
The customer is also willing to give you the funds in phase-wise, and he wants to see the result. So, again, we are working in the iterations, but after every iteration, we are delivering some.
Usable Functional Component.
So, once we do our activities, once we deliver it.
So that is what we completed our saving account feature here, and we delivered it. Then we picked up our credit card system, we delivered it. Then we picked up our corporate account, we delivered it. So we decompose our project into multiple
pieces. That is what is the incremental delivery.
In increments, you are delivering the result.
Alright, I'll go a bit more slow.
So, think of this change-driven approach Where we have… a project, with the…
Not fixed scope or fixed clarity, dynamic requirements. So that is how we go with this change-driven approach, and in this change-driven approach.
We have iterative way of working, we have incremental way of working, we have agile. So first, let's focus on our iterative way of working.
So that is the… First one, iterative way of working.
Viv… We have a single delivery at the end.
We are repeating our activities by refining our, outcome, by taking the feedback, and B, repeat.
Until we get our correct final desired output.
So, your product would be only delivered as a single delivery.
In incremental, we can show some results, some usable features, usable components in small, small portion.
just like this, you are working on a project, so we first delivered this. Now, we are not going to refine it. We are not going to repeat on this part. Then we… another component we delivered. Then the rest remaining one. This is how we are working in the incremental
Way of working.
Okay?
So this is how… just think of… you are developing one learning management system for a institute.
So, instead of working it As a single delivery, as the predictive way of working.
What you focused on, we first…
Worked on a module where we developed some videos on the foundational topics.
Then we have… Worked on another one.
we added… Some videos of advanced topic.
Then we added some quizzes.
So, this is what we are focusing on delivering the
project into small, small portions, so that customer can see the result quickly. Here, our main focus is the speed.
We want to work with the speed.
in the iterative main focus is because we are working to evolve, we are working to refine our things. That is what is the approach in the iterative way of working.
Some research-based project that we do with the iterative way of working.
Getting it?
Because you know that you have done something, but we cannot
Trust on that. So, you have worked in our one cycle, and we review our work, whether it is okay or not. So, based on our feedback, we further refine it.
We cannot deliver anything, no? There is no… there's some… the drug… the vaccine part, you have just first worked on your first phase. You cannot launch it in the market, no, until you are going to refine it, you're going to perform everything that could be only done as a single delivery.
Now, Agile is both.
Where you are working, Alternatively, as well as incrementally, both.
That is what… so mostly, you know, when we say adaptive, it is a kind of an agile way of working.
So what happens in this Agile? We have a fixed time box.
We call these time blocks as iterations.
So, that could be of 2 weeks, or 3 weeks, or 4 weeks.
So, we are… Focusing on completing… Let's say…
Same, we are developing a food delivery app.
Or any railway reservation system. Or your…
We have food delivery app. We know that we have to develop sign-up feature.
We have to develop where people should be able to browse some restaurants.
People should be able to place the orders.
People should be able to make the payment, options
I have added some slides from my part. As I mentioned to you earlier, I will be sharing the additional slides
that are apart from the PMI slides to you, definitely. I'll be sharing you all the additional slides that I'm using, apart from the PMI slides to all of you. That already I made it yesterday very much clear.
The PMI slides could not be shared by me because we have signed an agreement, it's a licensed copy. That is, not the ethical practices. Additional slides I'm going to share. So, food delivery app, we know that there are several features to be developed.
payment gateways, real-time tracking, we have to give some kind of a membership offers, like that, we know that there have to be several features. Now, we just worked in the iteration.
If I disable the chat, maybe, you know, people will find that Madam is… Prohibiting us for…
So, what I'll request you people, please don't put anything on the chat as it is distracting some people. Let me complete the topic. I'll listen to all of you. I'll handle all your queries. And this is what we are discussing as an overview. All these things we will be discussing in our upcoming topics.
So, I'm giving you the examples also. Right now, we are focusing on this food delivery app. Maybe, you know, a Swiggy…
or a Zomato kind of an app we want to work on. Let's say our app name is…
Zesty Bite.
I'll just enable this chat after some time.
So now, what we are focusing, let's say first iteration, we have this two weeks of iteration, and we decided we will be working on login sign-up feature.
So, we worked on this login sign-up feature.
And we are going to take the feedback. That is how we work as an creative way of working. We take the feedback.
from the customer.
And then, considering that feedback, might be customer asked us to change some design of our login page. We got that feedback. Now, in the second iteration, we are going to refine that
As well as, we'll also, because in this refining, maybe it will not take much of our time.
And we'll also develop the browsing restaurant feature.
And again, we are going to take the feedback.
And again, we will be…
refining based on the feedback that we have received, and we are going to add some new features. So, iteratively and incrementally, we are delivering in the agile way.
Alright? Agile is where iterative and incremental marries together. So, we are focusing on taking the feedback. Just think of your WhatsApp
app.
the way WhatsApp was launched earlier. So, we know that first they launched the message feature.
Like, so we got that message feature.
where you can do the group messaging, single messaging. Then what they did, they iteratively improved on double tick, blue tick.
Delete for one, delete for all, right? This is how they're iteratively improving that also. Incrementally, they are adding new, new features also.
Isn't it, after every week's time, we do get some updates on the WhatsApp, no? Status was, there. Then you have got the, payments also. That is what is the incremental and iterative way of working.
That makes us the agile way of working.
So, when we say predictive, plan-driven, that is a traditional waterfall approach.
When you say, Adaptive way of working, Then…
Adaptive means you have iterative, incremental, or agile way of working.
So, here we have single delivery at the end. Here you have single delivery at the end.
In incremental, we have got multiple deliveries.
Frequent deliveries we are working with.
Here, also, we are working with the multiple deliveries, plus we are focusing on the feedback also, because the main goal in the iterative way of working is the correctness.
Final goal.
Here, we are focusing on the speed.
Here, we are focusing on the speed plus value both, delivering value fast, based on the customer preferences.
We focus to deliver value fast. What is going to be most valuable first, we deliver, then we go for the next feature, we go for the next. This is how the agile way of working.
I'll give you one simple analogy to understand.
This is the typical predictive way of working, waterfall. As you know, that once you have built your house, you are working on a house, or maybe, let's say, bridge construction.
Now, we have constructed our bridge.
After this construction, if client comes to you, hey, I want to change the design, I want a cable string bridge now.
Is it feasible for you to go back and do the further? Is it feasible?
No, we cannot. After you have done the construction of your house, now you are saying, hey, I don't need a house. I want to construct an office building over here.
This is basically not possible in the predictive. That is what we say plan drives forward. We follow a sequential way, waterfall approach.
Always in a linear way.
Okay?
I have a table to make you understand.
In the predictive, we know requirements are fixed.
And these are all adaptive way of working.
Iterative, incremental, agile.
So, in the iterative, we are repeating our activities multiple times until we get our correct result.
In incremental, we only perform activities once per iteration. We have completed our one feature
And we deliver. We go for the next one.
Here, we are not focusing on the feedback and those after that. It is all done as a part of your development.
In the incremental, it is just, we are breaking our project into small, small portions.
It is a simple way. For your three-story construction, first you completed your first floor. You are asking the people that they can just have a… they can start staying in that. In the meantime, we can do our second floor, third floor, like that. This is the incremental way of delivery.
Agile is both.
Agile is both. We are iteratively working by considering the feedback and refining our product, and also we are incrementally adding the
value.
So, if I give you one simple…
you have your requirements.
And your frequency of the delivery.
Single?
multiple.
Requirements are known.
Fixed.
Requirements may be evolving.
dynamic.
No?
Once you have your fixed requirement, single delivery, that means predictive.
Evolving requirements, single delivery, iterative way of working.
multiple… Deliveries, requirements fixed, incremental.
This is agile.
Is it clear?
All of you?
Yes?
No.
Preeti, it is just saying, once we know that we have a fixed requirement, I want to construct a house, or I want to develop a website, and I want you to first complete my house.
and then I will be getting… taking it as a single delivery. I don't want to, like, get it into the portion. Website also, I have a complete clarity that these are the pages, what we want, this should be the theme. So, we just plan upfront, and we deliver in the linear way, predictive way.
Once you are working on the project where your requirements are not clear.
You know that we have to work with the experimentation. You're developing some kind of your digital marketing strategy.
Or some kind of your marketing campaigning.
So, we have to… Just do some experimentation, and based on the feedback, we have to refine our results.
And finally, once we get our desired result, we can have a single delivery. That is the iterative way of working. Single delivery, evolving requirement.
Once you know your requirements are fixed.
But frequency of delivery has to be multiple.
That is the incremental.
Agile is both. We are working repetitively to refine the result, plus incrementally adding the value. Just
Think of your Instagram, WhatsApp, you have your Facebook, you have your food delivery apps, you're working on your banking apps. That is where, no, they are refining the results also, they are adding new, new features also.
That is the agile way of working.
Now, we have third one, that is the hybrid.
Hybrid is nothing but Any combination of predictive plus adaptive.
Predictive plus adaptive. That is the hybrid.
What if, suppose, you are… Doing some project… Maybe a construction of your office building.
Now, this is what we would be following a plan-driven approach, no? You will be just following your blueprints, compliances, to decide to set a plan. Construction, everything we have done based on our blueprints.
No.
The interior part is what we want to understand the customer priority.
That is where we have both predictive plus adaptive. Interior part might be, you know, we can have those kinds of a tweaking in the interiors part that could be done in the adaptive way.
Just think of another example from IT sector.
You are working on some Healthcare app.
Or any financial application.
Now you know that to work on this healthcare app or financial app.
you are focusing on what way of working, because the UI UX
front-end or all, we can consider the customer preferences, and we can refine it based on their preferences, right? That is where we can be flexible, so we can follow the agile way of working there.
But now tell me, We know that in this healthcare app, we have…
To focus on the compliances also.
the data of the patients, all those things, we have those compliances. Now, tell me, can we be more flexible on delivering those compliance requirements, or you have to follow a set of procedures
policies, flowchart, right? So that part, we have to deliver with a predictive way.
Agile plus predictive in any combination is what is the hybrid.
You are Doing a solar panel project.
Or just take an automotive industries.
You have designed a new electric vehicle.
So, for this assembly of the car is also, no, we have to follow a plan-driven approach. That is what we have done. Now, tell me, in this same project, we have to have some advanced…
dashboard, no? Advanced driving system. Or you have to have some apps, because nowadays, no, Tesla also comes with a mobile app.
So, in this mobile app, or to develop this advanced dashboard, we know that we have to focus on the customer preferences, their, feedback. That is what we will be working with the HL.
Predictive plus agile makes it.
hybrid.
Any combination of predictive And Agile could be hybrid.
Part predictive, part adaptive. That makes you hybrid.
So… First, If the understanding on all these development approach is clear.
We are going to do some questions.
Alright, so hybrid development approach takes the combination of both. That is what PMI says. Now, most of the time, you are working with a kind of a hybrid life cycle.
Maybe, you know, you are working on, as I just mentioned, it is applicable, because when we say Agile, Agile is more into the software applications that we use.
Agile cannot be applicable everywhere. I'll just show you one video where Agile is possible, where Agile is not possible. If the understanding on this predictive, adaptive hybrid is clear, shall we do some questions before we take break?
Are you all clear on?
All right.
So… I will be showing you Some questions… And you have to decide
the different approaches. Now, one point, make it clear. Based on the information given in the question, you have to answer. Don't assume anything. And this is one of the
mindset for our PMP exam.
Based on the information, don't assume anything from your part. Always make a point. We have to answer based on the information.
You are building a government airport terminal, all requirements are frozen, strict regulations must be followed. Next activity can only begin once the previous phase is 100% complete. Predictive way of working.
Now, second scenario talks about We are going to discuss…
how to decide, there are several tools as well, right? So, we would be discussing that also. How do we decide what approach we have to focus on? We are going to talk about that also.
So, we have, no, when we are going to focus on this. So, first of all, you have to think, what is the safety requirement for our project? I'm just giving you some examples, some points to decide on.
Safety requirements, no? If you know that there are more of a safety requirements, we have to go for predictive. There is no not many changes we are expecting, go for predictive. Otherwise, you have to go for adaptive. If you're expecting so many changes in the project, so no point of planning it upfront.
Second scenario talks about you are a part of a startup developing an app for a pet care.
Features like pet tracking, appointment booking, alerts are added over iterations based on the regular user feedback. That is what you are delivering incrementally and iterative, no? It's not only iterative. You have to
add them, right? It's an agile.
Both, iteratively and incrementally, we are working.
A car manufacturer builds a full prototype of a new model, they test it, and then they refine it over 3 full builds. This is…
iterative way of working, not incremental, because they cannot launch the final version until they have refined it for 3 more builds.
Iterative life cycle.
Your team is developing a learning management system. So, first, you deliver the course upload feature.
Then you updated, you uploaded the quiz engine.
Then you uploaded your dashboard for the reporting. This is an incremental way of delivery. Each module is usable on its own.
Fourth scenario talks about a healthcare software project has a fixed backend data compliance component, must follow regulations, but the front-end interface has to be tested and improved with the real users in the weekly cycle.
This is… this part is what Agile.
This part is what?
Where you have to have a fixed backend data compliance component predictive.
Predictive means we strictly follow our plan by defining our plan, and we follow. So this is your hybrid.
Fourth is not predictive. Fourth is the incremental delivery.
This is the incremental, because…
We are delivering each module which is usable. So, first we delivered the course upload feature, then we delivered the quiz engine, then later we added the reporting dashboard. This is what is the incremental delivery, fourth one.
Second one says, we have to develop a pet care app.
Now, in this pet care app.
You are working on the features
For pet tracking, appointment booking, alerts added over iterations.
Based on the regular user feedback. So, iteratively and incrementally, we are Adding the deliverables.
So, you have a multiple delivery.
We are working iteratively also, requirements segmented based on the feedback. We are evolving.
Based on the customer feedback. That is why it is agile.
Hybrid means… It would be… Part predictive, part adaptive.
That is the… hybrid.
you have developed. Fourth should be iterative. No, fourth is not iterative. Now, again, as I just mentioned here, that based on the information, we have to decide. This could be…
Agile also. But in the example here, we have to deliver
each module as its own usable. So, we are delivering in the small, small portion, but this would be in the real-time LMS
that we have to improve, no? We have delivered our course upload feature. Now, what if, suppose, based on the feedback, you have to modify it also? Then it will become the agile delivery.
Agile is all. We are considering the iterative way of working that, based on the feedback, we have to improve.
Plus, we have to incrementally add some value.
That is the Agile. So this could be Agile if we are focusing on the feedback.
But, as I already mentioned you in the beginning, you always have to consider the information given in the question. Don't assume anything from your part.
That is what you have to think of. Because this is what we have to decide. That is what we are going to consider several things. You have to first think of whether you have your certainty in the requirements.
or not.
So, whether we can define our requirements easily.
go for predictive. If you have your requirements uncertainty, you cannot go for predictive. We have our volatility in the requirements, complex requirements. We cannot predict everything in the beginning.
Yeah, this is one important mindset, only consider the information in the question.
If you know, the changes we have to bring in the project is easy to manage.
Okay?
then it could be worked with the adaptive way. But you know that changes are not that much easy in our project, no? Just think of…
That you have started constructing
a building at a site. Now, you just dig the foundation. Now, after you have done the foundation, now you say, hey, I don't like this location. Let's move to the next location.
Just, you have to pour the concrete again, no, going for the next. That is not as a good thing, because changes will be too costly. It is not easy to manage the changes in the project. So that is what you have to see. How easy for you to manage those changes related to the requirements?
Go for adaptive, else go for predictive.
If you know that in your project, you have some compliances, some regulatory requirements, so that is where you cannot be flexible.
Hybrid is not agile. Hybrid is part predictive, part adaptive. It is all about our tailored approach. It is the combination.
Hybrid, as I show, it could not be. Hybrid is all combination. Hybrid could be the combination of your predictive plus iterative, or
Maybe you start first with your agile way of working, that we have developed our app, now the deployment part, we are following the predictive way.
So, we started with the Agile, and after this, the development… deployment part is what we have to follow our set processes that would be the predictive. Hybrid is your predictive plus adaptive.
Hybrid is the part predictive, part adaptive.
It has to combine the approach. Now, when we say, no, We are moving towards adaptive.
This is less adaptive, this is more adaptive. This is the extreme, agile, this is predictive. Now, any combination is what is the hybrid.
Might be, in our project, let's say we have to deliver 100 components.
Now, 100 components for 20 deliverables, all of our stakeholders have agreed upon requirements.
For 80 deliverables, there is…
not consensus dynamic. So we can follow predictive for this agreed upon, we can follow adaptive for these 80.
Right?
Hybrid is all tailoring. Hybrid is not any methodology. Hybrid is the combination of predictive plus adaptive.
Yeah, so we'll follow our ground rule, as we already discussed. We are going to do a few more questions on this development approach, and after the break, yeah, we will follow our ground rules.
We will be following our ground rules.
That we have already established yesterday. Break would be there, no?
Deepalia feedback could be on both. Suppose you know that we have to change our requirements also based on the feedback, we will be doing that also. Dynamic requirements.
It's not only us. So, we are going to change our requirements also sometimes, then only we can refine our
remaining work, no? So we are going to do the work repetitively, refining our requirements, refining our solutions, to get our desired pay.
Okay, Deb Malia?
Will do. Mandir, as I just mentioned, we will be doing a lot of questions. Now, don't worry.
So just enjoy your break first.
Take some breather.
come back.
I hope everyone is back.
So, I have just shared one…
file, so all of you, just pause for a minute on this chat window. This PDF has got
all the… Slide-wise explanation.
Because some of you will be having some trouble in downloading your PMI kit, no? Might be it will take some 4-5 days. So, this PDF has got first chapter, slide-by-content explanation.
Okay? So that is what you can just refer to for the time being until you receive your digital kit.
So… Once we'll start with our exam content outline topic, I would be sharing you the task-wise notes also.
So let's first… move further to discuss about this development approach. We have few more questions.
Again, please read the question based on the information you have to answer.
Yeah, both files are same. Actually, I just reshared that file, no, because some of the people have just,
message so much on the chat window, so I thought people will not be doing that.
In an innovative project.
Sponsor wants to deliver a creative and large data processing platform to better serve the customer. However, the functionality of the platform cannot be described clearly in the project requirement. We have uncertain requirements.
Now, with this uncertain requirements, We have to obtain continuous investment.
Every project output that shows progress will be demonstrated to the management. We are delivering incrementally, as well as we have to work with iterative approach, no?
Because functionalities are not clear. This is what is the agile way of working.
It's not predictive. Predictive is where you have got the certainty in the requirement. This is the pure, agile way of working.
Please go through this justification, it is going to…
Help you in improving your understanding as well.
Predictive is the development approach, waterfall is the framework that we use. It is same only.
People will… the PMI will confuse you in that way.
There will be several questions like that, to confuse you. We'll be doing those questions also in our upcoming topics.
Why not hybrid? Because, as we know, hybrid combines the predictive for the known scope, and the question doesn't talk about that we have a certainty in any of our scope.
Based on the information, We have to answer.
So, hybrid is always… Going to be part predictive, part adaptive.
Waterfall is the way of working in the plan-driven approach, no? We just follow a linear sequence
Starting for requirement collection, then we start our permits, we do the procurement, we start constructing, we do our finishing, we hand over.
This is what is…
We are working phase-wise in a linear way. It is not… no, water always flows down. It is not possible for us to move back also. That is why it is called as a waterfall way of working.
Traditional, waterfall, predictive, plan-driven, just rate it as the same thing. Adaptive, we have to mostly consider the HI.
This is how we are working in the…
First line, Yeah, it's a spelling mistake, thank you, I'll just do that.
It's an iterative and incremental.
I'll correct it. So, thank you for bringing this.
So that's… Says, no, you're too much observative. That has to be. Project manager has to be, right?
Good sign.
Another one.
That is a simple project manager is managing a project with requirements fully not fully known, high level of uncertainty. Go with HI.
Yes, Neha, I have uploaded the agenda on the LMS portal. Today only, I uploaded it. Last question, based on the development approach, then we'll move to the next topic. Again, we are going to talk about this development approach multiple times in our upcoming topics.
There's a detailed agenda, detailed topics for our planning in predictive, adaptive way of working, okay? So, no worries.
If you're clear on the overview, that is more than enough.
So, Mushtak?
Yes
For our PMP exam, we just have to consider the information in the question based on that answer you have to answer. Don't assume anything from your end. That is for the understanding purpose, that is what I mentioned very much clearly in the beginning.
A project manager is managing a project that has a component using Agile. Project sponsor asks the manager to add new component to this project, which is a government-regulated, with new complex text rules, with enough time provided to implement these rules. So they're giving you enough time to plan upfront for this government-regulated
tax rules, no? So that is what the sponsor suggests you to implement this component using predictive approach. And earlier component is what, Agile. So this talks about simply the hybrid approach.
Right? It's a simple explanation given here. Predictive plus agile, we are going to follow.
Now, moving on to the PMO.
So, I could found yesterday with our introduction, there are few people from the PMO also.
So, when we say PMO, PMO is a strategic unit in the organization.
Which is going to… Provide the necessary resources.
This is a necessary methodologies, tools, and technique for the project. Project, programs, or the portfolios. That is what is the role of PMO.
Now, every big organization, multinational companies have the designated PMO.
Now, the role of PMO… Could be different for different projects.
So, might be in your company, you are working with several projects, so that role of PMO could be either supportive.
Controlling or directive.
Supportive means
The PMO is not going to intervene in your day-to-day working, they're not going to interfere in your project, but whatever support we require, no, in the form of templates, you need some of the trainings, you need some of the formats for your project reports, for your registers, so they are going to support you with that.
But they're not going to have any kind of a control. They're not going to monitor your project progress, or monitoring your any of those things. That is what is a low control they have on the project. It is only a supportive role PMO has. They'll give you the guidance, templates, best practices, training.
for you.
Now, controlling PMO says, along with the support.
They are going to establish some compliances. They are going to define, no, you have to use the Microsoft project. You have to follow these compliance regulations. You have to develop your risk register in this format.
You have to have your quality matrix in this way. So, strictly, we have to follow them.
They are going to do the periodical audits also to ensure that you are following with those compliances or not. That is the controlling PMO.
moderate control over your project. They will be just focusing on whatever compliances, standards, methodologies they have established.
They'll check on whether you are following… whether you are adherence to those or not. Rest, they are not going to be bothering you, only they will be ensuring that you are strictly following those requirements.
That is a kind of a role of PMO, along with the supportive.
Controlling PMO is all about? No. This is no. As you know, the support, if you have some templates, some reporting formats you require, so they would be providing you.
But along with that, sometimes if you're working on a project which needs some of the compliances, so they are going to set those compliance requirements, they are going to define those formats, those SOPs, that strictly we have to follow.
Because they are going to periodically check also whether our team is following those procedures. They'll ask you, please share your quality report, please share me your risk register, whether you are strictly following those guidelines, templates or not.
That is a kind of a PMO role, moderate control on your project.
Directive PMO has got a full control. They are going to direct the project entirely. The project managers are directly working under the PMO.
They take the full control of your project.
This is what, no, once you know that in our organization, we are, let's say, carrying out
some 8 or 10 project. There is a one project that we are doing it for our internal process system. So, might be that PMO role could be in the supportive way.
There are some kind of an applications you are developing for some different bank branches, so that PMO may be having the controlling role for those projects.
What if, suppose, we are doing some highly strategic projects with our company? Let's say we are having those kinds of your ERP implementation, or you are working on some of the airport's construction.
We have a diversified portfolio. Think of an L&T company. So, we know that we have a kind of a working there.
You are working on some of the 5G TAR transmission at different locations, so that PMO is going to directly control the projects. Project managers directly work under the PMO, so they will be having the full control of your project.
So this is mostly, you know, even in your defense projects.
government, large EPC projects, turnkey projects, where we have got high compliances. Might be we are going to have this PMO as a directive role.
Metro rail projects, it's all directive PMOs. So, PMOs will have a full control on the project. So, maybe we are working on a
5… projects… under our 5G tar installation, or 5 airport constructions at different locations, PMO
will be giving you the full direction. All the project managers are going to directly work under them.
So you are going to coordinate all the project activities with your team. So, they are going to manage, you know, those shared resources, they are going to coordinate the communication against the different projects. That is a kind of a PMO role. So this is what is the full control based on the
authority, the control on the project. So, for some projects, PMO could be in the supportive. Or, just think of that you are not a kind of a well-matured organization. We are just a kind of a startup.
We cannot afford, no, to have a kind of a PMO. That is what it would be a costly affair for us when we are a new company. So what we do, as a project manager, with some of the senior stakeholders, you are going to establish some templates, formats for your project. This is what is a supportive PMO.
So, PMO, mostly, you know, the large organizations.
Will established organization have a separate strategic unit, which is specifically governing the project, programs, and the portfolio? Now, the role of this PMO could be different.
Okay? So this is what, based on the organization, what type of organization we have. So this is how they're going to govern the project, program, and the portfolio.
Now, most of the Agile organization, the companies who are working with this Agile, so we do have a kind of a flat structure in the Agile. So, we have a separate experts
Who are the center of excellence?
Now, Center of Excellence is nothing but you have some experts who are very much trained on these agile frameworks.
Center of Excellence could be a group of experts, it could be an individual, so we know that they are going to coach, mentor other team, other stakeholders on the agile mindset.
This is how these…
center of excellence with a flat structure, rather than dictating, managing, they coach, facilitates how to remain HI.
So, PMO is going to be a group.
Mostly, as we sit.
If you are working with a small organization, it is just, I am having my small consulting firm with a small group, so what we can do, we cannot afford a dedicated unit, no.
When we are new organization. So, as a project manager, you are going to work with some of the experts to establish those practices. This is what PMI also says.
Most of the experienced companies will have.
Now, this… Center of Excellence is the group of experts, no? We have those Scrum Masters.
people who are certified. So maybe we have those ACPs. This is how they are going to guide and coach the other people on those best practices to work on with this agile mindset. That is what is a kind of a
Center of Excellence, different, flat structure we do have, along with the PMO.
Because there, in the Agile world, we'll talk about that also, we do not have following this hierarchy. We always work with a flat structure.
Now, we'll talk about the… OPM framework.
Center of Excellence is just a group of experts
We do have an organization, let's say 3 or 4 experts on this Agile framework.
So these agile experts will be guiding the other stakeholders and the team on this mindset, on this framework. This is what they work as a coach rather than as a dictator.
So this is what… think of them as the superheroes group of experts who are going to guide, who are going to coach other people to work with that methodologies.
That is the center of excellence. This is mostly you'll find in the organization who are practicing agile. Sometimes, if you want to trans… like, maybe transform your methodologies from predictive to agile, so we need to have this center of excellence created.
who would be supporting the team on this Agile values and the mindset?
Yeah, these are all the Scrum experts, Agile experts, so this is how they will be guiding our team members.
All right, great. So, Devrata is already working as the Center of Excellence part, right? So now we have this organizational project management framework. Now, here we are going to focus on, no, because as we all know, that every organization is focusing on their value delivery.
So how do they focus on this value delivery? This is all about… this OPM stands for Organizational Project Management, which is just a strategy execution framework.
So, how the project, programs, portfolios are going to align with our strategic
vision of the company, strategic goal of the company. So every organization have to have this
system. So what happens, as we all know, that we do are working with the big organizations, so we are working with several projects at the same time, right? Just think of your Tata group. They have their Tata Steel Department, they have their Tata projects.
Tata Motors.
Several portfolios are running. Several projects are running. So, how they coordinate everything? We know that to execute our strategic vision, we are aligning our work.
So, there is always an external environment. Now, external environment means it is all those influencing factors which may be impacting us. We cannot work in the vacuum, right? So, what are these external environmental influencing factors could be?
market.
What type of market you are working with.
So, your bucketing market conditions, you have to consider your regulatory environment, right? This is what something we have to understand.
Now, there is always an internal environment which talks about our organization culture, which talks about our organization structure, what are our internal system, whether we have a kind of a culture of a command and control.
Or, our organization have a very flexible structure.
So, no, we have a kind of a coach-like leaders, or they are a commanders, they are a kind of a directive leaders, all that is going to be
defining. Now, this is the core.
So, we know, to align with our strategic vision, every organizations are doing multiple projects. Now, those projects are sometimes
Going to be combined to
deliver some broader benefit, to deliver some major objective. That is what we have got 3 entities we are going to discuss. Project.
program.
portfolio.
And we do have to have some operational work. That is what… just think of our Simply Learn.
So, in our Simply Learns company, we know that we have got different projects running
And some of the projects are a part of a bigger program.
And along with that, there are some operational activities that our marketing team, support team, IT teams are doing it to align with our strategic goal.
So, everything is a part of your organization portfolio. So, portfolio, when we say it is a
Aligned with the organization strategic we shouldn't.
What is the organization's strategic goal, objective? To achieve that strategic objective, we are doing some projects.
And some of the projects are going to be
Connected together to obtain their broader benefits.
Just for a simple example, Think of, in case… Tata Group.
They have their first division, Tata Motors.
So they have their sub portfolio.
So, in the Tata portfolio, they have this motor, Tata Motors, Tata Steel, they have the projects, Tata Projects also. Now, under this Tata Motorsportfolio, they may have one program
Electric vehicle.
Now, in this electric vehicle program, let's say they are working on 3 or 4 projects, no? Multiple electric vehicles Tata has launched.
So what we know, for all these projects, we can always have a better synergy of the resources that could be shared, because if you just carry out all these projects.
Project 1, let's say for Tata Tiago. We have another project for Tata Punch, another project. So, if we do these projects individually, we know that we are going to achieve some objective, some goal out of this project.
But the benefits of doing them individually Will be always lesser.
Then, doing them combinedly.
Because you can always have a better synergy of the resources. Now, the same design engineer could be working on all these three projects as well.
You may have your quality engineer working for the three projects. You may use your equipment, machinery is also shared for these projects. So, project could be a part of a program.
Or sometimes project could be directly a part of your portfolio.
Whatever work we are doing, it always aligns with our organization goal, organization vision. That is what is the portfolio is all aligned with.
So, program is a group of related projects.
We are constructing an apartment.
That is one project.
Now, what if, suppose, There is a company
A construction company who's working on a big program Where they are, Developing it, Urban Development.
They're developing a… constructing one apartment also. They're constructing one school also. They're constructing, let's say, some kind of a infrastructure work also.
And they have a… Shopping complex.
So, all of these projects… Are going to be combined together
Where we'll have a program manager who will coordinate these projects by sharing the resources, by coordinating these objectives together, so that we can have a… more benefits, better benefits by combining, by working them under a
program under an umbrella. That is what we have a project manager
Who are working under the program managers or the portfolio managers?
So, we have another example.
If you are just working on a new ERP system. So, we know that this ERP system would be considered as a big program, where we know that we have to implement it by doing some software selection.
data migration, user training, all these projects would be a part of our ERP program.
So, we do have a different roles.
program managers.
project managers, portfolio manager. In some organization, you may have that the role of project manager and program manager is
than by one person. That may be possible.
So, that person may play a dual role. So, once you are managing a project, you have to wear a project manager hat.
When you are working on the… overseeing the entire program, you have to work as a program manager. So we… here, we are focusing on the roles, actually.
Now, who plays that role? That is a different… Scenario.
So maybe you have a same program manager, portfolio manager is also same. If it is a small organization.
we may have the one person playing all the role. So, in order to understand
Mushtak, no, PMO, PMC are the different thing.
PMO, as we know, what is the role of PMO? PMO is just a strategic unit, or a division within the organization to support our project, program, and the portfolios.
Okay.
So these are the examples of programs.
for healthcare, for construction, for IT.
PMO is a strategic unit. PMC might be there for the individual projects also. That is a separate role.
Portfolios are always being the topmost.
All the classes' recordings would be uploaded on the LMS. So, first, focus on the topic, everything would be there with you, all the support we are going to provide, nothing to worry about. So, portfolios is nothing but group of project, program, plus
operational work, To coordinate to get the strategic objective achievement.
Think of your Larson in Tobru.
We have different portfolios, construction portfolio.
IT portfolio. We have now LTI Mindtree.
Right? And under each sub-portfolio, we may have the programs.
Where programs, we will have some 2 or 3 projects under those programs.
So… You can do some independent projects also, operational work also, programs also, that constitutes your entire portfolio.
Are you all clear on the difference between project, portfolio, program, Portfolio is… bigger than program.
Program is going to be the group of projects.
So, project could be… Whether you're doing a project or this is what we have to… Think.
We have our Simply Learn organization.
With a portfolio.
2?
Help the learners!
Across the globe, how we can upskill the
skills related to the technology or the other areas. So, we are carrying out several programs. Let's say first program is on the project management.
Now, under this project management program, we do have 10 projects running.
PMP, first batch, second batch, third batch, fourth batch.
Right?
These are all individual projects.
Now, these projects are going to be coordinated together, because we can always share the resources. So, might be the learner success managers could be shared for some projects, trainers could be shared for some projects. This is how we are synergizing together to achieve this program.
Similarly, we have another program on our AI-related. We have another IT programs.
Where we are doing several projects. Along with that, some operation works are carried out by our IT team, support team, marketing team.
That is the entire portfolio of the Simply Learns to achieve their objectives. We do have some individual projects also on social media marketing.
To run some digital campaigns.
These are all individual projects that directly comes under the portfolio.
So, Nidhi, am I able to answer your query now? Do you get it now, with this example?
Please do respond if I'm able to make it clear, right? Now, Vishal says external and the internal environment. As you know, every organization, once they are setting up their portfolios or their alignment, so we need to understand, no.
Whether for every organization, in what environment we are working with. So you have some external environment that is going to influence our success. Market condition, what type of product you have to launch.
You have to consider the market, no, whether this product will be successful in that or not. If you are trying to, expand your market.
You have to see, consider, you have to understand the regulatory requirements. These are all external environmental factors. You cannot have any control on that.
There are internal environments within the organization. What is our organization structure?
The culture we have.
So that also influences the organizational strategic goal. What is our leadership styles? What is the vision of our leader?
All that is going to… decide.
Then, only we define our system for value delivery, where you decide what should be your portfolio, what should be the programs. That is what we are focusing on.
So there has to be understanding between the three, because once you are going to fill your PMP application, no, we have to be very much
particularly focus on the project. Project is a temporary endeavor undertaken to create a unique product or result or services. Programs are the group of related projects
To achieve a broader benefit.
So, sometimes you start with one project, might be later on we have to combine some more projects to achieve our work.
broader benefits.
Portfolio would be… because unrelated project cannot be a part of a program, please make a note. Program will always be the related project.
your Metro Rail program, where you are working on some station projects, you are developing a project for track, you are developing some… doing some more projects, no? Your Northeast Corridor, all those could be the projects that are going to give the broader benefit of a program.
It will not include some other projects.
in the program.
Program will always be where you are going to have the synergy between the projects.
to attain the broader benefits. That is the programs.
Portfolios are the collection of project, program, subsidiary portfolios, and the operations to achieve the strategic objective. Portfolios are always aligned with the organizational strategic goal.
That is the keyword. And program is a group of related projects.
This is the example of Tesla.
They have a portfolio for IT,
electric vehicle. Starlink, I have not added here now. They are carrying out some operational work, and they have, let's a program related to hardware, software, the electric battery, engines. This is how
To understand the simple and the logic.
So, we have Portfolio Management 2.
Coordinate program, project, operational work to achieve our work.
business strategies. Program management is where we have to coordinate all the group of related projects to.
Realize those benefits.
Project management is always a part of your broader program, portfolio, or sometimes both.
Now, moving on to the organizational structure.
We are not going to dive deep into the organizational structure, we are just going to discuss overview of that. Now, organizational structure is basically, you know, the projects that we are doing in our organization.
We are going to talk about what is the way our resources are distributed.
We'll discuss about this organizational structure tomorrow. Typically, we have got functional, matrixed, project-oriented, composite. These are the four types of organization structure that we will be discussing tomorrow.
Can the portfolio be for separate projects not related to one organization? So, Atul, when we are talking about the portfolio, we are talking about the portfolio of the organization. As an organization, you know that you have some strategic vision.
Every organization have a vision, no?
You are working with your company, you must be knowing what the vision your company is.
What is the vision of the IKEA?
What is the vision of the… Amazon.
So, based on that vision, They are going to decide what should be there in their portfolio, right?
So, this is what In the portfolio, might be, in the beginning, we just have 3 projects.
They are all… unrelated.
This is what we are doing on. But once we talk about a bigger organization, so in the big organizations, think of, as I gave you the example of Tata Motors, or you take the example of your Volkswagen.
So, you just consider how those work are going to be organized. So, portfolio is your
If you make a VIN diagram, this is the portfolio of our company.
And we have, under our portfolio, one program where we have 3 projects.
We have another project independently. We have another program
with 3 more projects, or 4 more projects, we are doing some operational work. This is what is the portfolio.
If you're saying.
Projects are there. No, this project we are doing for some other company, some clients, though. This is the project, let's say, we are doing for Accenture. This is the project we are doing for some other client, maybe the Google. So that may be possible.
So, that will be a part of your portfolio. Portfolio will have the projects. Now, that project could be based on any organization. I think that was your question, Atul. That is quite possible.
Because you are doing the project, no, for some organization, maybe for different banks.
So that will be a part of our portfolio.
Projects under the program are related one only.
Always make sure. Whenever we say program, so program means it is a group of related projects.
So, portfolio is a collection of project, program, operations, all together. So, we are grouping everything to achieve our strategic objective.
Okay? That is what… it is all aligned with our strategic goal.
So, might be you're doing some projects of similar nature, but with different clients, different companies, no? That is what you have one functional team, or maybe one department who is working as a kind of a service desk team.
So maybe they're just following the similar processes, similar standards for that. So this would be considered as a portfolio.
Because we are managing all of these together for our strategic purpose.
If you feel that they are not going to share the same benefits, then they will not be a part of the same portfolio. That is what is a simple, as simple.
These portfolios are aligned with the organizational. Building house is a project, building the society would be a program, right? Exactly. And you have your construction company portfolio, where they are doing this kind of the society development for multiple cities. That is their portfolio.
Yes, I froze. 100% correct.
So, we are going to stop it here. So, what we have discussed today, we have given a good amount of time to decide about… to discuss on the project development approach.
We have discussed about the PMOs.
We have discussed about the project, program, and the portfolio, organizational project management framework. So, in our foundation topic, we have covered
What project is… what project management is?
What is the development approach, predictive, adaptive, hybrid? We discussed about the PMOs, we discussed about our OPM. Now, the topic left in the foundation is your organizational structure, plus project management principle.
and our Agile Manifesto that we are going to cover tomorrow. Next topic is the strategic alignment.
Project benefits and value.
I have already shared the additional PPTs that I am going to use. I will be sharing you with one Google link, Google Drive link.
Where you will have all the necessary material required for the PMP. I'm not going to share it today, I'm going to share it once we'll start over this third topic.
Because I don't want to overload you with so much of information, you know, you'll get confused, actually. Just follow the PDF I have shared with you today. That is the entire
topics that we are going to cover in this first chapter, slide-wise explanation. So people who want to come prepared, no, you can go and read those, content accordingly.
So don't worry, I will be giving you one single point of contact, where you will be having all the task notes, additional questions, right? You will be having some templates, you will be having the additional slides that I'm using, all the things I would be giving you, but not today.
You can watch the recordings.
on the LMS by tomorrow, I think, definitely it would be uploaded. Because usually, you know, we, our Simply Learn companies, they used to upload it as quick as possible, but
I'm not sure a few people mentioned that they are not able to find yesterday's class recording. I will also check it from my end, if it is available or not.
So, already I mentioned, you have got self-videos as well. It is live now, no? Bushtak says. So, yesterday's class recording is live, and today's class recording also, you will be able to find it tomorrow.
Any other queries you have, learners, we can still…
Spend some time, if you have anything to discuss.
S…
We talked about the digital kit. Don't get worried about. Have patience. All of you will be able to access it. You can always get the support from our team, and you can ping our Learner Success Manager, so that if you have any kind of a problem related to the logistics.
You will be getting the…
full support from us. You're not able to download the files which are shared in the chat. So, Pinky, are you using the mobile? I think, most of the people have done it.
What we'll do, I'll upload this file on the LMS as well. You can download from there, okay?
Class recordings are lifetime, accessible.
So maybe, Pinky, that is the issue. You can make use of your laptop to download it, or I'll upload it on the LMS. If you can download from LMS easily, use that option.
In LMS, you're not able to download the file. Krishna, you have to unblock your pop-ups, actually. The browser setting you have to change, it would be done.
Okay, team, thank you, all of you. Have a great day, good night. See you tomorrow.
You missed yesterday's files, Pinky, no? You can access the LMS portal.
all the material, you will have LMS portal.
From where you can download, right?
So, see you tomorrow, team. So, might be, as I mentioned you, 3-4 days, it will be a little slower we'll be going with, then we will be taking up our pace from the 5th day session.
Because people are all, this foundation topic, no, that is going to lay down your foundation for the project management.
So, I'm done with the today's session. I don't find any questions related to the content.
So, all the logistics query, digital kit query, please raise a support ticket, or I'm handing it over the session to our Learner Success Manager. He would be assisting you on that. Okay, team?
So, once again, thank you for your active participation, and see you tomorrow with our next topics.
Of this first chapter.
Learner Success Manager
Learner Success Manager
02:29:10
Thank you so much, ma'am, for an insightful session, and a big thank you to everyone for active participation. Before you leave, a feedback survey will appear in your browser. We truly value your input. If you enjoyed the session, we'd appreciate a 5-star rating. If there is anything that could have been better, please share your thoughts with us. Your feedback helps the students in our future sessions and create a better learning experience for you.
Once again, thank you everyone for your time and engagement. We look forward to seeing you again in our next session. Take care and happy learning. For digital key queries, I request you guys to raise a support ticket. I'll be sharing the steps now.
Faculty Ranjeeta Jain
Faculty Ranjeeta Jain
02:29:47
So, Mukesh, you have a query for your LMS. I think I showed you the complete walkthrough. You have to go to your LMS,
lms.simplylearn.com, and under your LMS, you have got 3 tabs. Self-learning, Live Classes, Assessment. Assessment has got full-length mock test.
Live classes?
is where you will be getting the access to our classes recording under My Class option. You will be able to see the sessions material also there, no? Once you click on the
this play button, you will get the class recording access, watch recording.
that you can play the recordings. You have to fast-forward the recordings, because half an hour is what we do, early start at. Session materials, you will be find all the session material that Trainers is attaching.
This is how you have to make use of your LMS.
Under self-learning, you have got all your self-paced videos that you can watch. All topic-wise videos are there that we are doing it, right?
